README.md, before:

# **Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks**

> **Multimodal-Outpost** is a collection of Colab notebooks designed for image inference and multimodal vision-language model (VLM) experimentation. It provides tools for OCR, image captioning, video understanding and generating DOCX or PDF documents containing both images and extracted text.

## Notebooks List  📘

This repository contains a curated collection of notebooks for implementing state-of-the-art multimodal Vision-Language Models (VLMs).

| Notebook Name | Link ↗ |
|---------------|------|
| Aya-Vision-8B-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Aya-Vision-8B-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Behemoth-3B-070225-post.1 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Behemoth-3B-070225-post.1) |
| Camel-Doc-OCR-080125 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Camel-Doc-OCR-080125) |
| Florence-2-Models-Image-Caption | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Florence-2-Models-Image-Caption) |
| Gemma3-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Gemma3-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Imgscope-OCR-2B-0527-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Imgscope-OCR-2B-0527-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Inkscope-Captions-2B-0526-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Inkscope-Captions-2B-0526-VideoUnderstanding) |
| LFM2-VL-1.6B-LiquidAI | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/LFM2-VL-1.6B-LiquidAI) |
| LFM2-VL-450M-LiquidAI | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/LFM2-VL-450M-LiquidAI) |
| Lumian-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Lumian-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook) |
| Lumian2-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Lumian2-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook) |
| Megalodon-OCR-Sync-0713-ColabNotebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Megalodon-OCR-Sync-0713-ColabNotebook) |
| MiMo-VL-7B-RL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MiMo-VL-7B-RL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| MiMo-VL-7B-SFT-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MiMo-VL-7B-SFT-VideoUnderstanding) |
| MonkeyOCR-0709 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MonkeyOCR-0709) |
| OCRFlux3B | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/OCRFlux3B) |
| Qwen2-VL-MessyOCR-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-MessyOCR-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Qwen2-VL-OCR-2B-Instruct | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-OCR-2B-Instruct) |
| Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Abliterated-Caption-it(caption) | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Abliterated-Caption-it(caption)) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Abliterated-Caption-it | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Abliterated-Caption-it) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| RolmOCR-Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/RolmOCR-Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| SmolDocling-256M-preview | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/SmolDocling-256M-preview) |
| monkey-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/monkey-OCR) |
| moondream2-2025-06-21 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/moondream2-2025-06-21) |
| nanonets-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/nanonets-OCR) |
| olmOCR-Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/olmOCR-Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| typhoon-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/typhoon-OCR) |
| typhoon-ocr-7b-Qwen2.5VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/typhoon-ocr-7b-Qwen2.5VL-VideoUnderstanding) |

## Features

* Extracts text from images using various OCR models
* Supports image captioning and multimodal inference
* Embeds images and extracted text into DOCX or PDF formats
* Designed for quick deployment via Google Colab

## Dependencies

* Python
* PyTorch
* Hugging Face Transformers
* ReportLab
* Gradio (for UI)
* (Qwen2.5-VL based) / Others

All dependencies are automatically installed in the Colab environment.

## Author

Created and maintained by [PRITHIVSAKTHIUR](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR)

Commit message:

Update README with Gradio version information
Added note about Gradio SDK version requirement.

README.md, after:

> [!note]
All notebooks run on the Gradio ≤ 5.47.1 SDK. If you encounter any component errors, please ensure your environment has Gradio v4.57.1 installed.
 
# **Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks**

> **Multimodal-Outpost** is a collection of Colab notebooks designed for image inference and multimodal vision-language model (VLM) experimentation. It provides tools for OCR, image captioning, video understanding and generating DOCX or PDF documents containing both images and extracted text.

## Notebooks List  📘

This repository contains a curated collection of notebooks for implementing state-of-the-art multimodal Vision-Language Models (VLMs).

| Notebook Name | Link ↗ |
|---------------|------|
| Aya-Vision-8B-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Aya-Vision-8B-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Behemoth-3B-070225-post.1 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Behemoth-3B-070225-post.1) |
| Camel-Doc-OCR-080125 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Camel-Doc-OCR-080125) |
| Florence-2-Models-Image-Caption | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Florence-2-Models-Image-Caption) |
| Gemma3-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Gemma3-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Imgscope-OCR-2B-0527-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Imgscope-OCR-2B-0527-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Inkscope-Captions-2B-0526-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Inkscope-Captions-2B-0526-VideoUnderstanding) |
| LFM2-VL-1.6B-LiquidAI | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/LFM2-VL-1.6B-LiquidAI) |
| LFM2-VL-450M-LiquidAI | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/LFM2-VL-450M-LiquidAI) |
| Lumian-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Lumian-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook) |
| Lumian2-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Lumian2-VLR-7B-Thinking-Demo-Notebook) |
| Megalodon-OCR-Sync-0713-ColabNotebook | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Megalodon-OCR-Sync-0713-ColabNotebook) |
| MiMo-VL-7B-RL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MiMo-VL-7B-RL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| MiMo-VL-7B-SFT-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MiMo-VL-7B-SFT-VideoUnderstanding) |
| MonkeyOCR-0709 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/MonkeyOCR-0709) |
| OCRFlux3B | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/OCRFlux3B) |
| Qwen2-VL-MessyOCR-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-MessyOCR-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Qwen2-VL-OCR-2B-Instruct | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-OCR-2B-Instruct) |
| Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Abliterated-Caption-it(caption) | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Abliterated-Caption-it(caption)) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-3B-Instruct) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Abliterated-Caption-it | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-7B-Abliterated-Caption-it) |
| Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| RolmOCR-Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/RolmOCR-Qwen2.5-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| SmolDocling-256M-preview | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/SmolDocling-256M-preview) |
| monkey-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/monkey-OCR) |
| moondream2-2025-06-21 | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/moondream2-2025-06-21) |
| nanonets-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/nanonets-OCR) |
| olmOCR-Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/olmOCR-Qwen2-VL-VideoUnderstanding) |
| typhoon-OCR | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/typhoon-OCR) |
| typhoon-ocr-7b-Qwen2.5VL-VideoUnderstanding | [Link](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR/Multimodal-Outpost-Notebooks/tree/main/typhoon-ocr-7b-Qwen2.5VL-VideoUnderstanding) |

## Features

* Extracts text from images using various OCR models
* Supports image captioning and multimodal inference
* Embeds images and extracted text into DOCX or PDF formats
* Designed for quick deployment via Google Colab

## Dependencies

* Python
* PyTorch
* Hugging Face Transformers
* ReportLab
* Gradio (for UI)
* (Qwen2.5-VL based) / Others

All dependencies are automatically installed in the Colab environment.

## Author

Created and maintained by [PRITHIVSAKTHIUR](https://github.com/PRITHIVSAKTHIUR)
